---
layout: post
title:  "How ChatGPT changed the way I work as a Software Engineer?"
date:   2024-06-30 11:40:34 -0500
tags: chatGPT working
---

I used to make use of google to search for answers to technical problems.
Then, I have a new option - ChatGPT, which boosted my efficiency in solving problems and learning new technical skills.
In this post, I will explain how I approach the solution after introducing ChatGPT in my workflow.

## Step 1: Question definition
First thing first, it depends on the following matrix to decide whether or not to use ChatGPT to solve the problem.

* Syntax in programming languages
Actually, we could use google to look it up. But, the tab of ChatGPT remains opened. So, why not just type in the key word to search the syntax?

Besides, as for refreshing the memory, we could still ask some other follow up questions, or ask the ChatGPT to summarize or make comparison to other similar syntax.

* Confidence
For example, the technical skills that I am not good at. i.e. frontend techniques, devops orchistration tools.

* Documentation writing
Needless to say, as a English as a second language software engineer, we use ChatGPT a lot to write email or documentation. The refined email is terrific!

## Step 2: Evaluate the answers
The answers from ChatGPT are not always quite right. Sometimes, it is because the context provided in your question is too much, or too few. After all, the answer is generated by probability. We still need to do some fact checking, which depends largely on our experience.

For some questions with less convoluted context, I believe the answers more.
For questions with complex context, I would only trust the answer in big picture. As for the details, such as code snippet that I might not understand, I tend to only read through and look up everything from google.

So, is the answer credible? Can I believe the answer?

I usually follow up with some other specific questions, if I am in doubt. When ChatGPT says sorry about the previous answers. That is the time to only look up the solution from google.


## Step 3: What did I learn from this answer?
Summarize what I learned in this problem.
Take note about what I should learn later.
Write a blog?

You know what? This blog post is drafted first by myself and refined by ChatGPT.
